
Week 1 (02/06/2025 - 06/06/2025):

	This was my first week of my first job ever as a IT Security Technician. I met my team they were very amicable. In this week, my team made sure I know basic stuff in my workplace like my equipments, desk, kitchen, etc. My manager also demonstrated what should employees do when there is a fire at our office and where is the firstaid. Then there was onboarding documentation process and signatures and ID card. On the last day, we received a ticket from Library Department that there 3-4 PCs are not working properly. My team invited my to show how we can manage this problem. We tried to fix the problem but we didn't manage to go for the root cause at first, then we realised these PCs were recently installed in the library when my team showed me the server room, so we added their MAC addressess to the University IT Firewall through the ACL. It was a really great hands-on experience for me that too in my first week where I was still in my probabtion and training period.

Week 2 (09/06/2025 - 13/06/2025):

	So, in this week, I spent my most of the time on mandatory training and assessments which were organization's code and ethics, anti-bias on gender, age.. etc, bribary, phishing awareness, etc. My manager also flet that I was getting bored so he rapidly organized and gave me the Blue Team Level 1 Access so I can start early to work with them. He also added me on the team scrum meetings to listen what they are working on currently. Then I got to know they have a deadline of this month to migrate all IT services on another vendor's firewall because they recently added it's SSL certificate in our Microsoft Entra ID.
I also saw how they were trying to reverse engineer all the services they were trying to migrate by finding their respective ports and protocols by netstat on the windows command line interface. In the mean time I was also buzy studying for my Microsoft Security Operations Analyst Associate Exam which is due in next week.

Week 3 (15/06/2025 - 20/06/2025):

	In this week, Aaron, my IT Security Colleage who is a Senior Security Engineer reminded me to register ASAP for the Free Elastic Course Campaign which is on-going till 31/07/2025. So I quickly started my Elastic SIEM course immediately, as our team uses it as our primary SOC tool. I was having a really good time studying the Elastic ELK Stack, really interesting to have a course with on-demand hands-on labs to interact which gives a real-world SOC Analyst feel. And also unfortunately my Microsoft Exam was postponeded after couple weeks due to technical issues within the Pearson Vue Testing Center. While my team was really having a long week due to the Firewall migration and its debugging issues. I am settling really well with my work and having a really great time with my team it seems there is lot to learn everyday which is a very productive thinking.

Week 4 (23/06/2025 - 27/06/2025,29/06/2025):

	This week was a really great reality check as Garry our Senior Firewall Engineer was teaching me how to configure with our PaloAlto Firewalls which we use within our University IT Network infrastructure, then I realised how much networking plays an important role in the world of CyberSecurity. He also suggested me to look a little back and gain the CompTIA Network+ credential which I had skipped to do my Security+. After two days, I got a little worried about my SC-200 exam so I paused my Elastic SIEM study and got back my Microsoft notes to resume my preparation for the upcoming exam. I started studying the Microsoft Defender XDR suite and Azure Sentinel, I fancy about Scripting and Querying Languages and definitely the Kusto Query Language was on my to-do list which covers almost 50% of the exam. Me and my team also worked on Sunday till 1900, yes it was an absolute disaster but yes sometimes we have to deal with it because we are IT Security. The manager needed me to test most of the devices after the Firewall migration which was most likely to have broken but I helped as much as I can and also yes I saw my F1 race in my office, different experience again. So working in security domain is a very responsible job and I think I am fine with it.

Week 5 (30/06/2025 - 05/07/2025):

	Yayy I got my first ever salary as an IT Security Technician, me and my family was really happy. This week my team has almost 75% through the firewall migration of all the services and networks. But there were many complaints from the IT Support team as there softwares and tools were being majorly affected. We were configuring the ACL rules of our Firewall and implementing security solutions like MFA and Role Based Access Control as needed. My manager also gave my a flash drive to make it bootable and burning an ISO image for using it as an individual Operating System as TailsOS or Kali which hides our digital footprints and event logs except discovering from high foresic tools. I learnt new commands on cmd as well as of bash to make the flash dirve bootable and unbootable. It was a really nice hands on experience specially if you want to access your workspace at anytime with only small usb drive. I also burnt a gparted image into the flash drive which helps us to create or move partitions across others within the disk while booted through it. Me and my team also did work onsite on Saturday as Firewall migration should not be affected while working hours, so we worked till 4pm and we finally moved all the services that day, but the work was not done yet we also wanted to ensure that how many services were affected by it.

Week 6 (07/07/2025 - 11/07/2025):

	Okay so this was a really long week because a lot of things were going on SC-200 preparation, helping my team to debug and fix the services, Cardiff University IT Staff Conference, Vendor meetings with regarding PaloAlto Cortex XDR subscription and students day out. So, starting with helping my team to debug the services which were affected by the migration and finally we were able to fix all the things and get ride of the old firewall at this end of the week. On Tuesday, my manager invited me to attend a meeting with Vendor regarding the PaloAlto Cortex XDR subscription as it was for SOC team which were us indeed. I got my first experience with high stakeholders and it was really important and priviledged to be in it as I got a clear path of what my team will be dealing with in next year. On Wednesday we had some A-level students at our office for some security domain experience for them, we gave them a exposure of diffenet types of malwares and how they should be defended and dealt with as a SOC team to promote CyberSecurity. On Thursday, we had an annual full day Cardiff University IT Staff Conference consisting talks with various IT teams and what they do in their average day. Our IT Director also gave me and my team a great shoutout infront of all the staff for migrating all the services to new firewall within the deadline. I also was really happy that a new guy like me was actually known by a lot of people in the conference as " ohh you are the new student placement guy under security team :)". I am really doing great as far, but I personally think I should do more than this because I am still preparing for my SC-200 which should be finished by now, but ya I needed a break from the digital screen and breaks like this meetings and conference really boosted my inspiration to work more harder!! 

Week 7 (14/07/2025 - 18/07/2025):

	This was a really fun week for me as we had two A-level students for work experience in our office. So me and team had planned whole week having various activities and hands on practicals to give them a exposure in IT Security. On Monday, we gave them a big tour in our CARDIFF UNIVERSITY, it was also new for me because I didn't had any before and we also got to know each other and making them comfortable here. On the next day, Gary taught us how to make an active RJ45 cable and I miserably failed competing with the kids ;), I've always been a software guy so yeah I blame myself for that and I also skipped CompTIA A+, but It was fun and I am glad that they both did make that cable work at the end of the day. I will also make it one day, slowly but surely. On Wednesday, we used some of the Firewalls(pfSense) of our friend Aaron, and made a small network connecting two PCs for our students to explain them how DHCP works and how network traffic works behind devices. In this week, I was participting with the students everytime as I love learnng hands-on and why not, you always get to know new things. On the next day, students suggested us that they want to know more about Linuxy/Unixy stuff as at our work we all spend our time in the terminal and almost all devices like switches, routers, servers, etc; run Linux and it's great skill to have. Therefore, Damo decided to boot Ubuntu on their devices and work on some forensics stuff like inspecting network traffic on the packet, capture find Flags, and correllating alerts. At the end of the day, I also gave them a tutorial of programming/scripting in bash as we were on Ubuntu OS and I hope it gave them a ray of interest :). On the last day Aaron gave them a demonstration on SOC in Elastice SIEM, like how an average day of Security Analyst would look like daeling with logs, alerts and investigations. Later after lunch, we had the final session on Pentesting stuff which damo explained the Ice Berg of Red Teaming and also gave them a HackTheBox Tutorial to play gamified version of learning in the Summer. Finally, it was really great to have students in our workplace and I also got to learn new things and yet another productive week!!

Week 8 (21/07/2025 - 25/07/2025):

	Well so this is one of the week in my placement year where there is nothing too excited to talk about as I worked the whole week alone on-site because my Manger was on holiday and he is only the on who shoes up everyday. So I decided to work upon my Microsoft Defender XDR and Azure Sentinel skills as well as keeping up with my TryHackMe Streak. But on Tuesday something exiting news happened, one of my Engineer told me that there is one infected device delivery with the service team for our team for digital forensics investigation and guess who startsthis process? Wuhu as I was alone in the office I picked up that device from the service team and my Senior Engineer colleague Aaron told me to have a look into the device and try to find a powershell script if possible. He suggested me to operate it with an isolation from any internet connectivity with forensics tools like Velociraptor and DeepBlueCLI, which was a heavy task but he told me not to worry because this not my work, just play with it. I really worked hard to find any script but didn't succeed and led to further dig deep by finding logs containing 4103, 4104 and 4688 event ID logs. And I finally founded my first exploit when my Senior Engineer read my finds, it was the Invoke_Mimkatz.ps1 script which infected the device. One very important thing to notice was the log which showed the Mimikatz running script was dated on 30/07/2017, things got very excited when my colleague told me can you check the laptop specs in the internet that it really existed in 2017 because it seems fairly new and then I got to know that model was released on 2021. Hence, that script was so powerfull, it spoofed the date and time of the logs as well. This was a very massive lesson for me at that time when I realized what actually "THINKING OUT OF THE BOX" really means in the world of CyberSecurity Professionals. I was really happy with my first ever real exploit and had a really great experience with an important lesson learned. On the last day I met Dan who is joing our team in September as a Graduate role, he is a really great guy he also has experience with our Networking team, Service Delivery team and Data Center Management team as well. He works in the Identity and Access Management team and also has completed CompTIA A+, Network+ and Security+. The best thing about him is he is very eager to learn new practical things as I am :) which makes him a perfect fit in our team. Ya we talked a lot about 2 hours and more importantly he will be working together for atleast 9 months together, really excited to learn more in this placement!

Week 9 (28/07/2025 - 31/07/2025):

	So in this week I still continued to show up in the office everyday even coming alone in our team because that's how much i am loving my work. To be honest I've not done enough this week as I can push my limits high and I've decided to be more consistent and focussed towards my career and hope I will foloow it. On Tuesday, Garry and Aaron showed up in the office and I was shocked as it was raining heavilly in the morning beacuse they have to see and investigate the ps1 file on the infected device. Aaron showed me about the kape tool, like how to configure it and how can we dig the investigation deep but still we ended up empty handed and decided to take some hand from Damian on Thursday so we left the device for full scan. The scan was still at 26% on the next day on Sophos so I Switched it off and continued my SC-200 course, I know it's taking me too long to finish it but I am trying it to get done by the week or two. On Thursday, Damian was back in the office and all our team was present to welcome him after 12 days. Oh my god, I asked hm how his holiday went and he told me how he renewed his CISSP and CCSP points by playing HackTheBox modules like Linux PrivEsc and AD also he spent time with his family I mean how does that I really don't know, may be problem is in our generation because I spend my most of the time on Linkedin and YouTube videos and on the other side he read books and plays CTFs for fun. I really need to figure this out and he also mentioned he will be off in August and will come back in September, so this my best chance to work on myself and prove my skills towards my team. I took my first holiday on Friday and helped my sister to move out to our new house and now I've also got a beast table to study so I really hope i will work on my distractions and finish my goals one by one :).

Week 10 (04/08/2025 - 08/08/2025):

	My manager, Damian was back this week and was happy as it was getting a bit boring working alone at our office and no one shows up in our team when has his holidays :). Full week I was concentrated on my SC-200 exam because August was already started and I wanted to get started with Blue Team Level 1 Certification. With my on going strong preparation of SC-200, I was working with Damian on PaloAlto Prisma Access Browser, which is a user agent came with the Cortex XDR. Damian told our team to get familiar with it as we are going to apply it on our University as the primary browser, which eventually become easy for us to our on SOC in Cortex XDR where all the logs are ingested. And we finally got to know this week that why I am not granted with administrator access on my device as Simon, our Endpoint Engineer told me that I am using a cyber device not a staff one. So Damian told me to use the second device which we had if you want to do some stuff as an admin it already has Ubuntu OS on it and he has also raised a ticket for providing me the ASM access where we reslove tickets about security incidents. By Friday I had almost finished with my exam prep and I have scheduled my exam on Sunday, so really looking foreward how it goes fingeres crossed :) I hope I will pass!.

Week 11 (11/08/2025 - 15/08/2025):

	Yayy I finally passed the exam and I am glad to know that now I am Microsft Certified: Security Operations Analyst Associate!. The exam was very deep into Kusto Query Language and Microsoft Sentinel SIEM almost consisting 60% of the portion, and ofcourse the honorable mention, the Microsoft Defender XDR Suite with the new Microsoft Copilot for Security. Well my team was very happy as I was hunting this exam for two long months while working ofcourse, and my manager will be also glad when he will know in September :). So celebrated this win with my lovely team and straight headed to start the Blue Team Level 1 certification Path. And this week I was focused on testing the Prisma Access Browser as well with my new exam preparation. So the Blue Team Training consists of315 topics to cover and at the end of this week I was able to finish 80 of them roughly 25%, although I have given four months to attempt this exam but I think I should do it as fast as I can do because while pursuing certifications its not recommended to take long or otherwise you will kepp forgetting early topics studied while ago. This exam is really important to me because of its practical approach which a 24-hours long exam to prevent a real world data breach and further investigate the attack. So if I am able to finish it till mid September, It will be really beneficial for me to start applying for graduate jobs in September, which is my priority plan for now. i am really enjoying this pathway and its really similiar to the Microsft one but more intermidiate. Let's see how it goes and I will keep learning and giving my 100%!!

Week 12 (18/08/2025 - 22/08/2025):

	New Week at work, resuming my Blue Team Level 1 Course, I am really loving this training of every domain like how it goes practically well and deep with hands-on labs, especailly during the conclusion phase of the Phishing Analysis domain, because to honest it was a lot of reading and was getting a little bored but the course takes an interesting turn by exposing tools like VirusTotal, URL2png, URLScan, Wanna Browser and ofcourse non other than Phishing tool. I think there were a lot but to keep it concise I mentioned only a few. So ya basically I was digging a lot in this and ofcourse that was the plan, but bone really interesting thing happened on Thursday(our sprint blacklog), Kevin, was really curious to know about the forensic report I conducted with the infected device earlier. So for the first time I explained the whole Chain of Custody of my digital evidence with the help of Cyber Kill chain and MITRE ATT&CK framework like a walkthrough. My Senior Engineers were really impressed by my work and appreciated my first find and how I presented the attack path timeline, Kevin also asked how many days did you took for this analysis and wanted to learn about it in depth. Of course I am still a learner, but for a placement student its not bad right? fast-forward till Friday I managed to complete 158 topics which is almost 50% of the course so It is going really great, I happily learning and implementing my skills through my journey and its good that I am picking a nice pace like completing 50% in 12 days is cool and fun. But of course the second half is more practical, tough, heavily practical and can take a lot more time but that's the fun way of learning and facing difficulties. Let's see how it goes and hoping for increasing my skillset further not just for the sake of passing it :).

Week 13 (25/08/2025 - 29/08/2025):

	I covered serveral tasks in this week rather than my Blue Team cert path. I reached to only 60% of the path this week, I wish I would have take it to 65% atleast but its fine because studying the Digital Forensics with rush will not make any sense and which is the whole point of doing certifications. So I fixed the persistent issue which was hunting me my whole placement till now which the admin privileges on my device and the access to any linux box which was to just take the whole new device. So I took the IT Security Teams device and formated a full new fresh Ubuntu Image on it and transferred my whole data from my managed device to that one. Transferring the ssh keys and config files was a pain due to its permissions but at the end I made it work and it is on the working stage phew :). I also tried to install Z Shell on Ubuntu, as I am used it since several years, but then I realised it needs to be configured specially the zshrc and its history, so I passed for now and ya I am exploring the bash now. Aaron showed up on Wednesday we have a great chat on the early investigation and he suggested me to take the FTK image of that device and then dig it further in the dedicated forensic device which we have in our seperate workspace. We also had a chat with the DevOps boys, Garin and Mathew, and surprisingly I got to know that Mathew is preparing for his RHCSA v9 exam which is my future plan too, he suggested me to go for v10 because they removed the containers section from v9 so it will be a bit less stress for me. At the end of the week, I learned about how to dump the hard disk drive img and how we can initially investigate for the file carving by scalpel tool. I then applied this skill to extract the disk drive from the infected device by FTK imager by taking a 1TB ssd as the image itself was of 255GB. Aaron also suggested me to go through KAPE and Autopsy which we will together investigate on the image file in the later week. I wish I had done more because it was the last day of me working alone and my manager is going to be back but ya it was a great time to work on my skills alone and time flew.

Week 14 (01/09/2025 - 05/09/2025):

	New Month, new week, which is the first day of our two new starters in our team Dan & Jess. Ohh they are so lovely people, its only have been a week and I am already bonded with them real good. Basically, we told them what we do and exposed them to our whole network system architecture btw I understood it better this time when I was on my first day :) and we also provided them to the Blue Team Level 1 Certification and recommended CompTIA Security+ as well for grasping solid Security Foundation. On Tuesday I was busy transferring all the data from my University Laptop to a USB stick as we have reached the end of an academic year and they wanted to patch some updates before the new academic year, I can still get the new one at the end of the week of this month, lets worry about that later. Wednesday was a big day for me because it was my first placement visit with me and my manager from my academic placement supervisor and it went really very well and ya that day I wrote my whole forensic report as well and posted it on medium to just ensure my manager and my team what processes and procedure I took in the Incident response which I explained later in the weekly Sprint Retrospective. So my academic supervisor was really happy with my current progress and I also told him I picked up my 2 SFIA skills as well which are SCAD and DFIR which need to hit atleast Level 4 within one of them which I have a pending meeting with my manager to decide how we are gonna do that once when I will be finished with my Blue Team Level 1 (slowly, but surely). On Thursday, we all had a weekly team meeting and discussed our progress which I demontrated earlier about my forensics analysis. At the end of the week we had a a little lunch and drinks as a Farewell for our lovely student placement Adam, and also kinda Freshers party for Jess and Dan as well which didn't finished early :), made really great memories and one of the best day of my life as it was my first official socials with my team (which is the best in the world). With all these things I also was able to reach 80% of the Blue Team Level 1 Pathway, I could have been done more becuase it is getting really very interesting but ya I did a lot of things in this week, so just decided to keep it steady. I am gonna push myself a little bit next week because we are appraoching to the mid of September and I need to get done with BTL1 and start applying for graduate roles.So lets see how it goes!.

Week 15 (08/09/2025 - 12/09/2025):

	At the start of the week, me and Gary were responsible to configure ssh keys for Dan and Jess for the newly build linux containers by Damo to provide them the paloalto firewall access. But unfortunately we weren't able to make it to the end, in my defence I didn't knew about how to generate the ssh public cert on Vault, I was able to generate the ssh keys as well as wrote the jumphost config to hop into the linux container and whereas Jess uses macOS ;), so took a bit help from Aaron to generate the cert and also add the pubic key to the container first which obviously i didn't had the access. But still it was giving error about the public cert, this it was a bit wierd because while creating containers, Damo had mentioned different usernames than usual which were on the main jumphost so finally he solved our problem but we also had another ones as well which I got to know later. I will just come to the point and process which should debug before going to the log analysis. First, we have to check appropriate users were added on the primary host and also to the right group, then we also shoud see that the primary host checks the username with the public cert as identity file as given provided by the Vault. Then we should see if we are able to pass the primary host and then debug about the jumphost. Then the main issue was the usernames were different in both boxes so we generated a new cert which should match the principal name of the user created in that linux container with the ssh public key and then follow the rest of the process we did earlier by looking assigned users and groups. That was fun and I also learned about keys, certs and jumphosts through lxc/lxd shells which the traditional unix style method. Tuesday was the last day of Adam which was spent by the whole team doing the CloudFlare training, which was interesting as it consisted about Web Application firewalls and web proxies. I had my final farewell with Adam atleast in our office because we will see him cafe later. He explained me his python script which he built to check the elastic logs are compliant with CIS framework or not. Rest of the week I spent some time with Damo telling me about our Network Architecture, like how are our vrfs and vlans are constructed with 3 tier model at layer 2/3. Jess had one ticket regarding access to different zone, so Damo showed us how to debug it by following network packets at differnt vlan zones via hoping through various linux containers using tcpdump. It was really fun digging the packet analysis as he demonstrate dhow we can see the tcp hanshakes at every destination points but finally was dropping by the paloalto firewall and where it was getting dropped. Side by side I was learning wireshark and was able to learn how it was more efficient solving this ticket. I was also managed to finish my Blue Team Level 1 Course I mean almost because I am at 99% and I will definitely finish it in the Weekend and then I can spend some days revising my notes and playing some Blue team and TryHackMe labs before proceeding to the final exam. It was a really heavy productive week and I am also building my relations very well with team, this placement is really valuable for me and I hope to enhance my skills more overtime!.

Week 16 (15/09/2025 - 19/09/2025):

	So this week I was heavily focussing on my pre-exam preparation for Blue Team Level 1 Exam, I went through all the important content which was in the Course like the Phishing Analysis Process and tools: VirusTotal, WhoIs, Wanna Browser & Hybrid Analysis; Digital Forensics Process and tools: KAPE, DeepBlueCLI, Steghide, exiftool, Recovering Windows $RecycleBin Files, Linux bash_history; Security Information & Event Management Process & tools: Search Processing Language, Splunk Dashboards, Windows Event Logs and Event Viewer, Syslogs and Sysmon Logs and lastly the Incident Response Process and tools: Wireshark, tcpDump, tshark, mapping techniques to MITRE ATT&K Framework, Volatility and Autopsy. I also revised all my notes which I had written while doing the course like when, where and how to use the tools. Then I started practicing and applying these skills on Blue Team Labs Online Platform, done some recommended challenges and investigations which were really Relatable to the exam. And then I also did a couple of very important TryHackMe Labs like Disk Analysis with Autopsy, Conti and Incident Handling with Splunk. Meanwhile I also had a great time with Damo and Jess as they show up everyday in our workplace. I again flashed a new device for Jess to practice the Blue Team stuff but she is very new to this domain so made a Windows 11 OS and Linux machine as a VM in that as Linux tools needs hands on practice before going to the exam. It was also my Manager's Birthday on Wednesday so made a cool greeting card for him as well (I hope he liked it :)). Labs and practices has made me confident and in a good position so ya Looking ahaed to take the exam on the weekend or Monday let's see how it goes, I hope I'll pass :).
